Source: Reddit r/WGU
Author: Ok-Hearing175
Title: A Comprehensive Guide to WGU: My Full & Honest Review with Advice

---

Hey everyone,

So I just recently graduated from WGU, and I wanted to give my full and honest review on the school. It took me three years to graduate with my BSBAMK, and I currently work in Digital Marketing. For context, I went to community college my first year, and I spent two years at WGU to procure my degree. In this review, I'll go through the ugly, the average and the good. Please don't take this review as "the law" I am just a recent graduate from the Marketing program sharing their honest thoughts on the school and how to improve it.

The Ugly - UProctor

Oh god, where do I even begin? If I am being completely honest, WGU really disappointed me (and a majority of students) when they got rid of Examity and introduced U Proctor. For all prospective students who don't know what this means, it is basically the software that WGU uses to proctor tests. Examity was a bit annoying, mainly because of some of the proctors were annoying, but it would usually take less than 10 minutes to get you rock n rollin for your exam. For this new one, however, it has taken me upwards of nearly 2 hours to get into an exam, which is absolutely ridiculous. This has not been the case for everyone, but for a good chunk of my tests, I have had to call student services and chat with an agent for quite a while before getting into my tests. I'm not saying it's a total turn off, but it is a MAJOR inconvenience, especially if you have other stuff going on throughout the day. I have no idea when or if this will be fixed, but WGU if you are reading this please please please for pete's sake fix this! It should not take a student 1-2 additional hours just to take their exam, especially if it is a hard one. We are busy people, most of us don't have time to block out a good chunk of our day to take an exam.

The Average - The Curriculum

Alright, This one is going to be controversial. Overall, I think the Marketing program is okay, but there is room for improvement. As someone who works in the industry, it would be nice if the marketing program could incorporate some classes in the Digital Marketing space, such as:
- Introduction to SEO
- AI in Marketing
- Technical SEO
- Google Ads
- Beginner Google Analytics

Or any other classes that are relevant to the growing industry. Don't get me wrong, I understand Humanities, Sociology and Leadership classes are important, but considering the fact that I use a lot of what I just mentioned at work, it would be nice to see more of that reflected in the curriculum.

The Good - Mentor/Teacher Support, Endless Flexibility

Now this is where we get into the "meat and bones" of the school. WGU is completely different than traditional college, mainly because of how flexible it is and the fact that it is competency based. You can take a test at 12 AM, 2 PM, 5 AM, or 7 PM or at any time if you want, and you can take it from anywhere in the world, as long as you have your webcam and a reliable internet connection. This proves advantageous for busy adults who may not have the time to sit down in a traditional brick and mortar school and listen to a professor for a specific amount of time. Also, the support from the teachers and mentors at WGU was amazing for me! I couldn't have finished my degree without my mentor, there were many times I wanted to drop out and quit because I got frustrated, but she never gave up on me. I owe her a lot of credit, and I also owe my professors a lot of credit. It's ironic because traditional college professors usually get a bad rap for not caring or for rushing through the material, but that is not the case with WGU professors. These are some of the nicest people I have ever come across, and that is saying something because I am jaded from life 101. My professors always called me or sent me an email if I did bad on an exam, and they always made time for me and they did their best to make sure I understood the material. This is where WGU shines compared to other schools, and I am grateful that they did not leave me in the dark when I was struggling with some of my classes.

Rating, Advice and Final Thoughts

If I were to rate WGU out of 10, I would score it a 7.5/10. Pretty good, just needs some improvement. Honestly, if they got rid of the proctoring software and switched to one that is better, it would be a 9/10. Make the marketing curriculum more innovative and it is a 10/10 for me. Now enough of my complaining, let's get to the advice.

Advice:

If you are an incoming student for the marketing program, here is some advice from an Alum.

1. Study for your exams! DO NOT try and BS your way through this program, it is much more challenging than you think. I had to learn this the hard way but there are many classes, such as Marketing Management, Economics, Accounting, Finance, Project Management etc that are not fly-through classes. READ THE TEXTBOOK for these classes and study accordingly, you do not want to find yourself in a situation where you have to do a reassessment because the process can be BRUTAL for the vast majority of classes. Sure, there are a few "easy" classes like PAS or other ones that you can fly through, but the vast majority of them you need to STUDY for. A good rule of thumb for this would be to look at the course name, and if it has the word "Management" in it, then you better hunker down and study.

2. Silence the noise from Reddit. This sounds counterintuitive, I know but hear me out. A lot of these people that accelerate have worked in the industry for a long time, and others are just good at school. Don't get discouraged if you see someone pass a class in 5 days when it's going to take you a month. Everyone is learning at their own pace, just focus on you and stay the course! You got this!

3. Talk with your mentor/Professors. If you have questions or concerns, don't hold them in! Talk to your mentor and professors, that is what they are there for to help you succeed. They can't help you out if you don't speak with them, they can't read your mind.

4. Get experience before you graduate. Look for internships and apply early if possible, otherwise you can also volunteer your weekends or free time to do some free or cheap marketing labor for your friends/neighbors. It is not the most glamorous or ideal situation, believe me, I know, but you got to get started somewhere right?

5. Use online resources. There are plenty of online resources that can help you out along your journey. WGU has many resources for students, including counseling, discounts, and an alumni connection program. That is right, you can connect with WGU Alums if you need advice or help with your coursework.

6. For Exam Day, clear your schedule. A very annoying inconvenience, I know, but better safe than sorry. I would recommend blocking out a total of like 3-5 hrs to go through the exam process, that should give you enough time to get into the exam and do the prechecks and all that stuff, along with finishing the exam.

Final Thoughts:

So with all this being said, is WGU for you? The reality is, only you can answer that question. I am in my very early twenties, so I am a bit of an anomaly and not really WGU's ideal "target market" if that makes sense. However, I can say this:

If you are looking for a degree that doesn't cost you an arm and a leg, and that you can do at your pace, look no further than Western Governors University. If you are a parent that doesn't have the time to attend a brick and mortar, look no further than this school. If you are a working professional, who is looking to go back to get a master's degree for example, this would be a good fit. If you are a young person that is hesitant to go to a traditional university, this might be the place for you. If you are a self-motivated individual, I would recommend. Like anything in life, WGU is not perfect, but overall it is a pretty good school. If you have questions or concerns, feel free to PM me I would love to help where I can!

---

COMMENTS:

CountSheep:
My only gripe with WGU is that it has the same issue as some real colleges in that some classes are just read the book. For these classes, I think it would be better if each section had its own lesson video that you watched that goes over the subject matter. You learn best when you have multiple paths to learning and I think it'd be nice to have that in the actual lesson and not some secondary resource. I had an online class once at a community college like this for python and I thought it was the best online learning class I've ever had. It mixed reading with a 20 min tops video that had a few problems and question you respond to and walked you through some problems too.

missdq03:
Agree. This is my pain point with WGU, the lack of mediums when it comes to course content. The online platform they have for their textbooks has been so clunky. I wish they at least gave us the option to purchase the physical books instead of charging us for the online ones.

snupe81:
The one complaint I have is when you take the OA test it would tell you how many questions you missed at the end of the test and not just study more on in these areas. The study part does help, but it be nice to know how many questions you got wrong if you failed the test. Example is it shows my test grade was a 60 and I missed 5 out of 20 questions.

cwwalls30:
I'm going to add my thoughts on the extra classes you mentioned. I don't see how a school is going to keep up with AI, SEO, Google Ads etc. I was recommended to work on some certifications in those areas. I did Google Analytics, Meta blueprint, Databrick AI, HubSpot Social media certifications before WGU. Took me about 2 months but it was worth it. Bonus is it is the latest information.
