Source: YouTube transcript
Title: How to Succeed at WGU

---

Hey guys welcome back to my channel. I have always wanted to make a video that really helps you as a student thrive successfully. I have what is considered a 4.0 GPA and I would like to share with you the best tips that I have for you to succeed not just as an online student but also for someone who attends WGU.

Don't Ignore Quizzes or Unit Tests

The first thing that I highly recommend: don't ignore any quizzes or unit tests of your course material. Use them to your advantage. They really help you to synthesize and retain the information that you've learned, especially if it's heavy and quite a lot. Try and aim for an 80% or higher. Whenever you're talking with your instructors, they're always going to go back to see if you've taken all the quizzes or done the unit tests and they're going to look at your score and see if you have an 80% or higher. You can retake those quizzes and unit tests, so feel free to do so if you haven't gotten above an 80%.

Use Every Resource the Course Gives You

Use every resource, no matter what it is, that a course gives you. This can be interactive notebooks, notes, any cohort notes they attach for you, pre-recorded videos, online events, task guides, checklists, any assessment strategies they have for you. Use them all. Every course can be different as to what they will provide. Sometimes they'll provide a lot and go the extra mile and sometimes they really won't, so you just have to use every little bit. Really use the resources especially when you're studying for the OA and when you have hard concepts you don't quite understand.

Also really use the WGU Success Center. They've got lots of different live events for math, writing, and lots of different stuff for your career as well. It can really help you achieve necessary skills like time management and reducing stress. They also have academic coaching and a library to further assist you.

Have an Action Plan on Day One

Whenever I tackle a new course, I always try to get ahead with the planning. I think about how long it will take me to complete that course. I use a little checklist when I start a new class to make sure I go through the course material, the events, the course tips, and the announcements. Those usually have an instructional support page or a road map that contains all of the courses resources. I also use a study plan and I try to be consistent. I usually take my assessments early morning. On test day, I will tackle the next course that same day.

Make Sure You Have People Rooting for You

It's so important to have a support system — not just your mentor or your instructor. Find people out there for you, whether in person or on social media. WGU has a lot of support groups, especially on Facebook. Reach out to one of them. You can also learn about courses and tasks to complete from those groups. I always inform my family and friends what I'm doing and that allows me to have some accountability. Having a support network is crucial to your success here.

Use Study Halls

Study halls are like group study sessions. They have instructors on standby and typically last a couple of hours. You don't have to stay the whole time. You can meet up with online friends who are in a similar class to form your own study group. Sometimes study halls have small breakout rooms. You can also use the Remind app to contact your mentor and to meet up with students in a similar class. Study halls are especially good if you don't do well studying by yourself and you need some accountability. Typically every course has them, but double check with your instructor to make sure.

Manage Your Time Effectively

I have found that if I ignore my mental or physical health I have higher chances of burnout, and that is something you don't want especially at WGU. Don't overwhelm yourself or overload yourself. If you're a part-time student it's around up to 12 hours a week; if you're a full-time student it's more. WGU always requires that you have at least 20 hours a week dedicated to studying. I usually stay above 15 to 20 hours a week and that's enough for me. I usually have an hour or more sessions in the morning and in the afternoon, but do what works best for you.

Keep track of your obligations, stay organized, and take study breaks often. I've also found that if you unplug more you're more likely to have a productive kind of life. Reach out to your instructor and your mentor. Let them know of your plan for each course. I went through a very difficult course this past term and I did not know what to do, so I finally reached out to my instructor and it just made it so much better. I was really able to pass my OA because of it.

Get Ahead When You Can

Try to establish a study routine especially if you're going on vacation or you've got some sort of event coming up. Try to get ahead. Every bit of time is really valued. Every little moment matters. This really helps because if life throws you a situation you weren't expecting, you were already ahead of the game. Getting ahead is so important.

Build Your Confidence

Having confidence is something that I have truly treasured as a WGU student. Reward yourself for achieving your goals, whether that's big or small. If you barely pass the OA, it's still a win. Celebrate your accomplishments. Speak and treat yourself with kindness. Before every OA I have a little dance session to get all the jittery nerves out, but I'm usually pretty confident throughout because I always say to myself "I'm going to pass." Having confidence really helps you not just as a college student but also for life.
