Source: YouTube transcript
Speaker: Alex (WGU alumni, software engineering masters with AI specialization, also spent time in WGU's accounting and computer science bachelor programs)
Title: Survival Tips to Complete Your WGU Degree (Any Field)

---

I personally graduated from WGU with a software engineering master's degree with a specialization in AI engineering. I also spent time at the school in both their accounting bachelor's and their computer science bachelor's. Then I finished up at Thomas Edison State University and graduated with a degree in computer science.

What Can You Expect at WGU?

A lot of the courses you will get by really fast if you are dedicated, spending 4, 5, 6 hours a day on school. You can get these courses done wildly fast. I did my software engineering master's in just 2 months and 5 days, investing like 7 or 8 hours a day. You can do the same thing with your degree.

Transfer ACE Credits In

I always recommend transferring ACE credits in, such as from Study.com and Sophia. When you transfer in courses from Study.com and Sophia, you're getting rid of more of your WGU term time. Doing a whole bachelor's degree at WGU in one or two terms without any transfers is extremely hard. If you really want to maximize your timetable and maximize your savings, transfer in as many ACE credit courses as you can.

Not everybody gets financial aid, and financial aid doesn't cover everybody's entire tuition. If you pay a one-time fee of $1,000 to maybe $1,300 max for all these ACE credits, and you might pay way less than all that, you're permanently getting rid of like half your credits that you need. So you're saving probably two terms at WGU, maybe even more. That'd be $4,000 or possibly $8,000. If you did two terms at WGU and basically did all the ACE credits for less than $2,000, you have a bachelor's degree for less than $10,000 and in less than 18 months.

Dealing with Hard OA Courses

Your momentum might stall when you get a hard OA course. That definitely stalled me a few times. It stalled me in the accounting degree with Cost and Managerial Accounting — I was in that class 3-4 weeks and it really discouraged me, to the point I didn't even want to finish that degree. I actually have 80% of a bachelor's in accounting done. I just never finished it. Don't be like me — if you're that close, just finish it. Get as much help with that course as you can. Meet with the course instructor, scour Reddit for tips, scour the Facebook groups for tips.

For most classes I don't even recommend opening the textbook — it just slows you down. If you need to learn, learn third-party, ask AI to teach you. Textbooks are designed to be this big chunky thing where it's going to take you months to devour. That's not something I recommend if you want to accelerate.

But for the really hard OA classes — computer architecture is one of them, Discrete Math 1 and 2 could be a couple of them — you might actually need the textbook. Find as much useful information as you possibly can regarding these.

Performance Assessment (Essay/Project) Classes

In the performance assessment classes where it's an essay or a project, I really don't think any of the essay classes should take you more than 4 days if you're trying to accelerate. If you're really trying to accelerate, get that class done in 1 to 4 days, everything turned in. If you're doing a project class, I don't think those should take you more than 10 days at the most. Try to aim for performance assessment classes done in 10 days or less.

For most OA classes you should be aiming 7 or 8 days or less. Look on Reddit or Facebook groups and see which OAs are hard versus easy. If everybody tells you they passed an OA really fast, then you know you shouldn't wait too long to take it either. That's why WGU is so valuable — because of all the community feedback.

How I Studied for OAs

I would study a lot for a few days, take the practice assessment, master everything on the practice assessment, and master all the concepts on the practice assessment. If you're doing this 5 hours a day, you definitely have time to master all the concepts or at least get a good enough grasp to pass with like 75%.

You're not aiming to pass these tests with 90-95%. That doesn't really do you any good. You are trying to pass with 70 to 80%. You only need 67 to 70% to pass most OAs at WGU. Even if you only need 67-70%, it still counts as a recommended 3.0 GPA when you go to grad school.

Your Program Mentor

I would very much advise you to develop a close relationship with your program mentor. Hopefully your program mentor is very easygoing and easy to talk to — I've had quite a few experiences and most of them have been generally positive. If you're really not vibing, you can always change the program mentor. You just send a request. Remember, you are paying money and making the decisions. If you don't feel like you're vibing with the program mentor, you can change that.

Community and Networking

Every course you'll see a "join community" option, which I highly recommend taking advantage of. In that community you'll meet other people. I'd recommend networking with them — not just for help with the course, but you never know if somebody's going to help you get a job. You can make friends in college, even if it's online college.
