Source: YouTube transcript
Title: Tips to Study 2-3x Faster For WGU Classes

---

I want to do a really quick video on studying for WGU classes and how to cut your study time in half or even less with a couple tips.

Tip 1: Research the Course on Reddit First

Anytime you're doing a class, go on Reddit and find the post for your class. Just type in the course code into Reddit and it'll pull up a thread of someone giving their tips for what you need to focus on and what you need to study for that class. They usually show how they scored as well. This gives you an idea of what you're getting yourself into before you take the actual class.

Tip 2: Watch Cohorts at 1.5x or 2x Speed

When you're going through the cohorts, I really recommend watching all the cohorts that your class has. You can turn up the speed to 2x, maybe 1.5x, and you'll literally cut the video in half. So if it's a 30-minute lecture it'll turn into a 15-minute one. If there are four cohorts, it adds up — you'll save yourself like a full hour or two of studying. You're also going to be able to understand them better because a lot of times professors talk really, really slowly.

Tip 3: Take the Practice Assessment Early

Right away, go into your practice assessment and see how you do. That will give you an idea of what you need to go back and restudy. Go through the PA and study everything you missed until you know exactly what those answers would be. Then schedule the test and take it.

Tip 4: Use AI to Get Momentum on Paper Assignments

If you have a course that has a paper or something and you're just struggling to get it started, plug some of those questions into ChatGPT or something — not to copy and paste anything, but just to get an example of what you should be looking for. Sometimes the way questions are worded I will sit there and look at it and just be like, "Where do I even start?" So you can plug it into ChatGPT, get your mind going in the direction you need to go, and then just find a way to answer it in your own words.

Tip 5: Eliminate Distractions

You want to have as little to no distractions as possible. If you stay on social media a lot, one thing you can do is move it to the back of your phone. Put all the social media apps in the very back — that way there's a lot of friction. You have to actually go look for them instead of them being on your home screen where you might just press them. Make that a little bit of friction and you'll be a lot less likely to open them.

Tip 6: Take Short Naps or Meditate After Studying

Something that I believe helps with studying is meditation or napping. Anything 15-30 minutes is great. There are studies showing that napping helps you retain information and learn. After I do a big study session I finish it up with a 15-30 minute nap, which helps me reset my energy levels and also helps me learn and retain the information better. At night when we go to sleep your brain kind of replays everything from the previous day — that's how the learning process works in general. You'll notice sometimes when you come back to something the next day, you can do it much easier. That's because overnight, when you were sleeping, the learning process was working.

If you use those tips you'll be able to save a lot more time studying and your study time will be a lot more efficient.
